Prerequisites
To follow along with this guide, it’s essential to have the following tools installed on your computer:

Docker Engine
HashiCorp Terraform
AWS CLI
Node.js runtime
Github


SECTION: setting up the docker app
git clone https://github.com/mohamed-khalif/deploying-nodeapp
cd demo_node_app
npm init --y
npm install express
node index.js
Open http://localhost:5000/ on your browser and check if the application is working. You should see the following basic CRUD web app:


SECTION: Dockerize the app
Once the Dockerfile has been created then run the following cmd:
docker build -t sample-app .
docker run -it -p 5000:5000 sample-app
http://localhost:5000/ should serve the same application, but this time from a Docker container.



SECTION: Building underlying infrastructure
1. Provider Configuration
Specifies the required AWS provider with its version, access keys, and region.

2. ECR Repository Creation
Creates an Amazon Elastic Container Registry (ECR) repository named "app-repo" to store Docker container images.

3. ECS Cluster Creation
Establishes an Amazon ECS (Elastic Container Service) cluster named "app-cluster."

4. ECS Task Definition
Defines an ECS task named "app-first-task" with container specifications.
Specifies essential container details like image, ports, memory, CPU, and compatibility with Fargate launch type.
Sets up networking specifics like network mode and execution role.

5. IAM Role Creation for ECS Task Execution
Defines an IAM role "ecsTaskExecutionRole" allowing ECS tasks to assume the role.
Establishes a policy for the role to execute ECS tasks.

6. VPC and Subnet Creation
Creates a default VPC and subnets in two availability zones within the "us-east-1" region.

7. Application Load Balancer (ALB) Configuration
Sets up an Application Load Balancer named "load-balancer-dev" across the previously created subnets.
Defines a security group allowing inbound traffic on port 80.

8. Security Group for Load Balancer
Creates a security group for the load balancer allowing inbound traffic on port 80 from all sources.

9. Load Balancer Target Group Configuration
Establishes a target group for the load balancer to route traffic to IP-based targets.

10. Load Balancer Listener Configuration
Configures a listener for the load balancer on port 80, forwarding traffic to the target group.

11. ECS Service Configuration
Sets up an ECS service named "app-first-service" associated with the ECS cluster.
Specifies the task definition, launch type, desired container count, and load balancer details.
Configures network settings, assigning public IPs and defining security groups.

12. Security Group for ECS Service
Defines a security group for the ECS service, allowing inbound traffic only from the load balancer security group.

13. Output
Logs the application's load balancer URL as an output.